---
layout: post
title: Goals
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

With the beginning of the new year, I believe there are a few changes that I need to make in my life. I have been feeling lethargic, lazy, and quite plainly… bored. It is time to fix that which is why I created this list of the things to accomplish this year and posting it because I want to declare this to the world to make sure I follow through.
<!--more-->
A little background. While in college, I never did anything for myself. Studying and projects took precedent over treating myself and doing fun activities (not a good philosophy). Occasionally, I would watch a TV show or play some game, but that was short and rare.

Now, I don’t know what I want to do. I don’t know my interests other than programming, history, and some fitness. So, when I'd come home, I'd just sit at my computer, play video games, or watch TV/YouTube. Like I mentioned, I felt bored; like my life wasn’t going in any direction

So, in December, I set these goals out for myself. I brainstormed what I wanted to get done this year as well as trying to explore different areas that might interest me. My next task is print them and put on my wall in my room, a daily reminder of what I want to accomplish.

Without further ado: 

### 1. German Shepherd Puppy!!!

I am by far most excited for this one! I love dogs and German Shepherds are by far the best dogs, in my opinion. They are loyal, loving, and just the right amount of energy. I have been wanting a pup for a while now and the timing is just right. In fact, this weekend I just placed a deposit on a male German Shepherd who will be ready to come home in May!

### 2. Finish two programming projects

The first programming project I have is an android app. However, the project has become monotonous, but I do enjoy working on android projects, so I want to complete something and continue learning android. This project is going to be done by June. I’ll post info about later on.

The next project is some sort of video game. I really want to make a Minecraft clone. I hope to complete this by the end of the year.

### 3. Get below 200lbs

I have always been a fitness enthusiast, but never really had much dedication to it. Last year I had some motivation and moved from 250 to 215. However, a series of unfortunate life events destroyed this motivation and I quickly fell back into bad routines. This year, that isn’t going to happen, and I am going to reach my goal. That means having a good diet, implement an 8-hour eating window, and work out on almost a daily basis.

### 4. Read at least 30 minutes a day

Honestly, I have never been that great at reading. Never really liked it. I read slowly, which got frustrating when people can read so much faster than myself. But like any skill, the only way to get over reading slowly is to read more. 

### 5. Learning to cook

I cook every week, usually twice a week. If I am doing something with some regularity, might as well learn to do it well, right?

### 6. Learning to photograph

My dad and people in the r/EarthPorn, r/FoodPorn sub-reddit’s take some breathtaking photos. The saying “a picture speaks a thousand words” can’t be more right. And with my new pup, we will explore new places and environments, taking pictures as we go.

### 7. Learning to play guitar

I love music. Music can evoke emotions and feelings in ways that is hard to describe. It can put you to sleep, excite you, motivate you, depress you. It is an extremely powerful art. 

### 8. Blogging at least once a month

Making progress on that one, am I right? 😉 This is something that I am doing to get out of my comfort zone. I want to talk about any random stuff that comes to mind. Video game reviews, how to write clean code, vent, whatever. Also, it will be a good way to improve my writing skills!

### 9. Decorate the apartment and get my life organized

My apartment has never really felt like home. Since college, I always moved every 6 months, so I never wanted to decorate my living space (packing is a pain in the ass). Now that I have a more-or-less permanent location, I want to make the place feel homie. Simply getting some more furniture and wall art will be a good start. (Good idea for end of the year post!)

### 10. Take risks and be more assertive. 

Lastly, I have never been an assertive person, and I have never been much of a risk taker. That all changes now. I stand up for myself. If I order something and it doesn’t come out the way I want, I tell the waiter instead of just accepting it. If I am busy and someone asks for something, I am going to say no. I am tired of being passive. Time to do stuff that I want to do, and this is where it begins.

# Time to get to work

There you go. That is all the shit that I want to get done this year and now you know it too. All of this can totally get done in a year and I am going to be hyper-focused trying to get it done. Now that you know it too, I am less inclined to break it.

I have also begun doing other good habits for my life, but I don’t want this post to get to crazy. I might do a follow up post where I talk about my daily habits so stay tuned!
